Add second adventure in deno land and newsletter form (#12)
asantos00/website: content/blog/second-adventure-in-deno-land.md

---
title: Second adventure in deno land
description: Going a little deeper on deno. Exploring lock files, testing, sharing code between deno and the browser, permissions and more.
date: "2020-06-10"
published: true
featuredImage: ./adventures-in-deno-land/banner.png
---

On my last post, I wrote about [my first adventure in deno.land](https://alexandrempsantos.com/adventures-in-deno-land/).

It was a fun one, the excitement of trying some new technology was always there. _deno_ left me thinking about new possibilities and asking myself what am I going to build with it.

> Last time I built a small twitter bot to scratch the surface of the standard library and to get to know _deno_ a little better in a context that is more than an "hello world".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Last time around I have built a small twitter bot in order to scratch the surface of the standard library and to get to know _deno_ a little better in deeper context than a simple "hello world".
```

> It was very well-received, way more than what I was expecting. It ended up being, to the time, my most read and reacted post ever. I guess I got quite lucky on the "_deno_ hype train".

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It was very well-received, way more than what I was expecting. It ended up being, at the time, my most read and reacted post ever. I guess I got quite lucky on the "_deno_ hype train".
```

- [Documentation generation](#documentation)
- [Permission system](#fine-grained-permissions)
- [Running _deno_ code in the browser](#running-code-in-the-browser)
- [Testing](#testing)

If you want to follow the code, [here you have it](https://github.com/asantos00/deno-twitter-popular).

## Lock files

To complete the information from the last post about dependencies, I'll write about lock files. They're a standard practice in many languages in pretty much every production app. They're used to describe an exact tree of dependencies, in order to make installations more repeatable, avoiding issues that may arise out of version misalignement.

In _deno_ you can generate a lock file for the used dependencies by running

```bash
deno cache --lock=lock.json --lock-write ./src/deps
```

This command will _cache_ (that local installs the used dependencies) based on a `lock.json` file. The `--lock-write` flag updates or creates the `lock.json` file. The last parameter is the file that uses the dependencies.

To install the dependencies while integrity checking every installed resource, one can run:

```bash
$ deno cache -r --lock=lock.json deps.ts
```

> The [generated file](https://github.com/asantos00/deno-twitter-popular/blob/master/lock.json) is no more that a json object of dependencies and a checksum

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [generated file](https://github.com/asantos00/deno-twitter-popular/blob/master/lock.json) is nothing more than a json object of dependencies and its checksum
```

## Official VSCode extension

> The official vscode extension is launched! However, it is the exact same that I talked about last time. It was just moved to the official repo, as the changelog states

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The official vscode extension has been launched! However, it is the exact same that I have mentioned on my previous post. It simply got moved to the official repo, as the changelog states
```

interface Tweet
  Fields in a tweet

interface TweetResponse
  The response from Twitter API
```

The `--json` flag is also supported (however, not for symbols), and allows generating the documentation in the json format, enabling programmatic uses.

One great example of the documentation generation uses is _deno_ [runtime API](https://doc.deno.land/https/github.com/denoland/deno/releases/latest/download/lib.deno.d.ts).

It uses Deno to generate modules with the `--json` command and provides a really nice layout around it. We just needed to add `typedoc` to our modules, like what we did [here](https://github.com/asantos00/deno-twitter-popular/commit/dbac72b58f46ace067381cbdfc5708877b033aac#diff-8575744caf69ee401aa128c0f0d46a42R71).

## Fine grained permissions

As we talked [on my previous post](https://alexandrempsantos.com/adventures-in-deno-land/), one thing that _deno_ got very well were permissions. They're easy to use and secure by default. Previously, I've explained that in order for a script to be able to access the network, for instance, you'd have to explicitly use `--allow-net` flag when running it.

> That is true, however, I was alerted by my friend [Felipe Schmitt](https://twitter.com/schmittfelipe) that in order for it to be stricter, we can use:

Reviewer: 💙

```
deno run --allow-net=api.twitter.com,0.0.0.0 index.ts
```

This will, as you probably guessed, allow network calls to `api.twitter.com` and from `0.0.0.0` but disallow all the other calls. Instead of allowing complete access to network, we're allowing just part of it, whitelisting and blocking everything else by default.

> This is now very well explained on the [Permissions page](https://deno.land/manual/getting_started/permissions.), which is one of the documentation improvements that were added after the v.1.0.0 launch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is now very well explained on the [Permissions page](https://deno.land/manual/getting_started/permissions), which is one of the documentation improvements that were added after the v.1.0.0 launch.
```

Reviewer: Otherwise the docs do not load correctly.

  Make an assertion that `actual` and `expected` are equal, deeply. If not deeply equal, then throw.

function assertMatch(actual: string, expected: RegExp, msg?: string): void
  Make an assertion that `actual` match RegExp `expected`. If not then thrown

/* Cut for brevity */

function fail(msg?: string): void
  Forcefully throws a failed assertion

```

Let's write a simple test to our "isomorphic" client we created a few lines above.

`Deno.test` will be used to declare the test body, `assertEquals` will be called to make the assertion. In order to mock the server responses, we'll spin up a server using standard-library _http_server_.

We expect that, the `popular` method from the client calls `/popular/:twitterHandle`. Let's create a test for that.

```ts
import * as ApiClient from "./index.ts"
import { assertEquals } from "../deps.ts"
import { runServer } from "../util.ts"

Deno.test("calls the correct url", async () => {
  runServer(async req => {
    assertEquals(req.url, "/popular/ampsantos0")
    await req.respond({ body: JSON.stringify({ statuses: [] }) })
  })

  await ApiClient.popular("ampsantos0")
})
```

> Our `runServer` util is a very simple function that just spawns a web server that closes after the first connection.

Reviewer: Might be cool on a future adventure to also explore stuff like [mocks](https://deno.land/x/mock/), etc.

Author: It is, definitely! I'll probably do a third adventure with benchmarking and using a couple of libraries to very standard use cases. I was thinking like `oak` (as you talked about last time), `mock` and a couple more things
